introduction.md, before:

---
headline: <h1>Ethereum will become the most <span class="accent">powerful</span>, most <span class="accent">used</span>, most <span class="accent">credibly-neutral</span>, and most <span class="accent accent-green">energy-efficient</span> blockchain network in&nbsp;the&nbsp;world.</h1>
attribution:
  -
    name: "u/Bob-Rossi"
    link: https://www.reddit.com/user/Bob-Rossi
  -
    name: "/u/Chapo_Rouge"
    link: https://reddit.com/u/Chapo_Rouge
---

In 2013, Vitalik Buterin published a [whitepaper](https://ethereum.org/en/whitepaper/) that conceptualized “A Next-Generation Smart Contract and Decentralized Application Platform” – [Ethereum](https://ethereum.org). Initially launched with a proof-of-work (PoW) consensus algorithm in 2015, the [vision](https://ethereum.org/en/eth2/vision/) has always been for Ethereum to become an [energy-efficient](https://spectrum.ieee.org/computing/networks/ethereum-plans-to-cut-its-absurd-energy-consumption-by-99-percent) proof-of-stake (PoS) network. After discarding initial plans in 2018 to make the switch to PoS through a hybrid system known as “[Casper the Friendly Finality Gadget](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1710.09437.pdf)” and "[Slasher](https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/01/15/slasher-a-punitive-proof-of-stake-algorithm/)" the problem has become clear – how does a community upgrade the heart of a decentralized network while said heart is still beating?

The solution: [The beacon chain](https://ethereum.org/en/eth2/beacon-chain/). The beacon chain is a fully independent PoS network that runs in parallel to the current PoW Ethereum mainnet. By keeping the PoS chain siloed from the main network a ready-to-ship solution is being perfected without risking the flourishing decentralized application platform of the Ethereum PoW chain. A one-way bridge from the PoW network to the PoS network began accepting deposits (as of November 2020) and the beacon chain is currently [live](https://beaconcha.in/), ready for action, and secured by millions of ETH deposited across over 100K validators. Since its launch, in December 2020 the beacon chain has been an absolute success — finalizing 100% of its epochs with no downtime.

While the beacon chain provides an elegant solution to transitioning the Etherum consensus algorithm, the chain Ethereum will not live split in two forever. To fully realize the transition to PoS, Ethereum’s history on the Eth 1.0 PoW network be brought to the ETH 2.0 PoS chain. This will be done through what is known as “The Merge”. Once completed, the PoW consensus mechanism will no longer be in use and all future blocks on the Etherum blockchain will be produced by the new PoS algorithm. No history of transactions on the Ethereum network will be lost in this transition. "The Merge" is not the launch of a new Ethereum, but rather an exciting upgrade - bringing Ethereum in line with the original vision laid out at its genesis.

Commit message:

Introducing the concept of consensus layer.
In the text, was used a the term "consensus mechanism". I had better success explaining ETH2 with the concept of consensus layer. It's easy to explain that the merge is an update in the consensus layer, while the data layer (dApp and Accounts) won't change.

introduction.md, after:

---
headline: <h1>Ethereum will become the most <span class="accent">powerful</span>, most <span class="accent">used</span>, most <span class="accent">credibly-neutral</span>, and most <span class="accent accent-green">energy-efficient</span> blockchain network in&nbsp;the&nbsp;world.</h1>
attribution:
  -
    name: "u/Bob-Rossi"
    link: https://www.reddit.com/user/Bob-Rossi
  -
    name: "/u/Chapo_Rouge"
    link: https://reddit.com/u/Chapo_Rouge
---

In 2013, Vitalik Buterin published a [whitepaper](https://ethereum.org/en/whitepaper/) that conceptualized “A Next-Generation Smart Contract and Decentralized Application Platform” – [Ethereum](https://ethereum.org). Initially launched with a proof-of-work (PoW) consensus algorithm in 2015, the [vision](https://ethereum.org/en/eth2/vision/) has always been for Ethereum to become an [energy-efficient](https://spectrum.ieee.org/computing/networks/ethereum-plans-to-cut-its-absurd-energy-consumption-by-99-percent) proof-of-stake (PoS) network. After discarding initial plans in 2018 to make the switch to PoS through a hybrid system known as “[Casper the Friendly Finality Gadget](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1710.09437.pdf)” and "[Slasher](https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/01/15/slasher-a-punitive-proof-of-stake-algorithm/)" the problem has become clear – how does a community upgrade the heart of a decentralized network while said heart is still beating?

The solution: [The beacon chain](https://ethereum.org/en/eth2/beacon-chain/). The beacon chain is a fully independent network in which the consensus layer is based on PoS. It runs in parallel to the current Ethereum mainnet, which the consensus layer remains based on PoW. By keeping the PoS chain siloed from the main network a ready-to-ship solution is being perfected without risking the flourishing decentralized application platform of the Ethereum PoW chain. A one-way bridge from the PoW network to the PoS network began accepting deposits (as of November 2020) and the beacon chain is currently [live](https://beaconcha.in/), ready for action, and secured by millions of ETH deposited across over 100K validators. Since its launch, in December 2020 the beacon chain has been an absolute success — finalizing 100% of its epochs with no downtime.

While the beacon chain provides an elegant solution to transitioning the Etherum consensus algorithm, the chain Ethereum will not live split in two forever. To fully realize the transition to PoS, Ethereum’s history on the Eth 1.0 PoW network be brought to the ETH 2.0 PoS chain. This will be done through what is known as “The Merge”. Once completed, the PoW consensus layer in Ethereum will no longer be in use and all future blocks on the Etherum blockchain will be produced by the new PoS layer. No history of transactions on the Ethereum network will be lost in this transition, since "The Merge" won't affect the data layer of the network. "The Merge" is not the launch of a new Ethereum, but rather an exciting upgrade of the consensus layer - bringing Ethereum in line with the original vision laid out at its genesis.
